[WIP] Follow #25 and more progress (#26)
v-community/v_by_example: examples/loops/loops.md

> # Looping Constructs

Reviewer: I liked the split of the `loop` and `if statement`. Makes totally sense.

There's only one type of loop in V language like Go which can be used in many ways.

## `for` loop

`for` loops offer a quick and easy way to do something repeatedly. They're handy, if you want to run the same code over and over again, each time with a different value. You can think of a loop as a computerized version of the game where you tell someone to take X steps in one direction then Y steps in another; for example, the idea "Go five steps to the east" could be expressed this way as a loop:

```go
for i := 0; i < 5; i++ {

>   println('Walking one step');

Reviewer: Indentation seems to be wrong.

}
```

V has the `for` looping construct and the loop can be written in different ways:

1. `in` operator for array/map

```go
ages := [18, 25, 32, 43, 50]

for age in ages {
	println(age)
}
```

Note, that the value is read-only.

2. `while` loop

A `while` loop is a control flow statement that allows code to be executed repeatedly based on a given Boolean condition. There are no parentheses surrounding the condition, and the braces are always required.

```go
mut factorial := 1
mut counter := 1

for {
	counter++
	factorial=factorial*counter

	if counter > 5 {
		print(factorial)
		break
	}
}

println(counter)
>> 120
```

3. Traditional C style

```go
mut factorial := 1
mut counter := 1

for i := 0; i < 5; i++ {
	factorial=factorial*counter
	if i == 6 {
		print(factorial)
		continue
	}
	println(i)
}
```

4. Forever Loop

`for` loop can also be infinite

```go
for {
    println('foo')
}
```

## Exercises

1. Write a V program to display the first 10 natural numbers.
2. Write a V program to find the sum of first 10 natural numbers.

> 3. Write a V program to display n terms of natural number and their sum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Write a V program to print the integers inside an array and also print their sum.
```

> # Looping Constructs

Reviewer: I think you should also update the `README` and add this page to the examples menu list.

```go
for i := 0; i < 5; i++ {
    println('Walking one step')
}
```

V has the `for` looping construct and the loop can be written in different ways:

1. `in` operator for array/map

```go
ages := [18, 25, 32, 43, 50]

for age in ages {
	println(age)
}
```

Note, that the value is read-only.

2. `while` loop

A `while` loop is a control flow statement that allows code to be executed repeatedly based on a given Boolean condition. There are no parentheses surrounding the condition, and the braces are always required.

```go
mut factorial := 1
mut counter := 1

mut factorial := 1
mut counter := 1

for {
   counter++
   if counter > 5 {
    println(factorial)
    break
   }
   factorial=factorial*counter
}

println(counter)
>> 120
```

3. Traditional C style

```go
mut factorial := 1
mut counter := 1

for counter = 1; counter < 6; counter++ {
    factorial = factorial * counter
       if counter == 5 {
         print(factorial)

>         continue

Reviewer: Code indentation is wrong here too.

       }
println(counter)
}
```

4. Forever Loop

`for` loop can also be infinite

```go
for {
    println('foo')
}
```

## Exercises

1. Write a V program to display the first 10 natural numbers.
2. Write a V program to find the sum of first 10 natural numbers.

> 3. Write a V program to print the integers inside an array and also print their sum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Write a V program to print the integers inside an array and also print their mean.
```

Reviewer: Number 2 and 3 look similar, that's why I'd prefer to ask readers to calculate the `mean`.

> 3. Write a V program to print the integers inside an array and also print their sum

Reviewer: Number 2 and 3 look similar, that's why I'd prefer to ask readers to calculate the `mean`.
